Let's take a look at a few common used cases to get
a better understanding of how an architecture might use
IAM roles instead of IAM users to effectively implement a secure access model in AWS.
We're going to take a look at an architecture to see how a DevOps engineer
might provide access to herself and other members of the team.
In this first scenario,
she will use an IAM user,
which will have API keys that will be directly used
to perform other actions based on an IAM policy.
For example, accessing S3 or EC2 in
one account or accessing Lambda or DynamoDB in another account.
She will have a separate set of IAM user credentials for each account.
It's a fairly simple access mechanism.
However, imagine what can happen if these keys were to be compromised.
The burden of securing and managing those keys or the user password falls on the user.
In the second architecture,
our user will have very limited permissions via an IAM policy that will only
allow her to assume a role which allows her to do the work that she needs to do.
In this diagram, she will also be able to switch to
other AWS accounts and assume appropriate roles that
will provide permissions via an IAM role policy to be
able to interact with services such as S3 or EC2.
In this case, there's only one set of user credentials she would need to use,
and there is no need to manage users and credentials for other AWS accounts.
This forms the basis for role-based access control and identity federation.
Take a look at this architecture to see how a developer
can configure an application to access Cloud services.
In this case, we are providing access to an application rather than a person.
In the first scenario, the application will make use of an IAM user.
The user will have API keys that will be directly used to perform
actions such as writing data to S3 buckets or DynamoDB tables.
It's a fairly simple access mechanism.
However, imagine what can happen if those keys were to be compromised.
The burden of securing and managing these API keys falls on the developer.
In the second architecture, there is no user.
The application will be able to assume
a role that is assigned to the instance where it's running.
This allows it to do the work they need to do.
This is a simple example of how we can do away with provisioning and managing API keys.